{
  "age": 33,
  "background": "After graduating from West Point, I served as an active duty Army Officer training, developing, and leading America's sons and daughters, both stateside and during multiple combat deployments. I then transitioned from active duty service into consulting, where I worked for one of the largest professional services organizations in the world, working with both federal and commercial clients across the United States. During this time, I also became a small business owner focused on helping local, rural, economies by providing go-to market capabilities within the wine industry. I'm also an executive board member for several non-profits within the greater Maryland region—which focus on supporting wounded warriors and serving our military service men and women. Finally, I elected to continue my military service in the United States Army National Guard, where I am a Major supporting domestic emergency responses for the Federal Emergency Management Agency.",
  "directory": "content/us-house/district-3",
  "district": 3,
  "dob": "10/19/1985",
  "education": "I graduated from the United States Military Academy at West Point, NY, with a Bachelor of Science in Business Management. I then received a Master of Arts in International Business and Policy from Georgetown University, in Washington, DC.",
  "filename": "adam-d-demarco.md",
  "full-name": "Adam D. DeMarco",
  "general-only": false,
  "headshot": "http://surveygizmoresponseuploads.s3.amazonaws.com/fileuploads/296249/4299807/253-0b94e7fad0edfe267e4e24cc3cfdc507_Demarco-6357.jpg",
  "jurisdiction": "Baltimore City",
  "last-name": "DeMarco",
  "party": "Democrat",
  "questions": [
    {
      "question": "How do you assess the Trump administration so far?",
      "answer": "The past 14 months of the Trump Administration have proven to be some of the most divisive, regressive, and dangerous months of any administration in modern day history. During this administration, we, as the United States, have abdicated our position as a leader in the global community and have transgressed 21st century global power to a 20th century isolationist country. However, while I disagree with the Trump administration, I also realize that across our cities, towns, and communities, thousands of Marylanders continue to struggle. And in that spirit, I understand that civility and discourse is needed now more than ever. So, while I don't agree with the administration, I am also willing to come to the table to negotiate and find common ground so that our neighbors, friends, and families, are able to continue to build towards their American dream. Our country needs a new generation of leaders now more than ever. Leaders that will represent honorably, legislate with integrity, empathy, and compassion. And leaders that will serve selflessly.",
      "shortname": "Trump record"
    },
    {
      "question": "Do you support or oppose the federal tax cuts passed in 2017? What effect do you believe they will have on the economy?",
      "answer": "I strongly condemn and oppose the federal tax cuts passed in 2017. My first contention is that this tax bill was not only a gift to corporate lobbyists, but it was essentially written by them. Of the just under 11,000 registered lobbyists in Washington, DC, more than half—6,243—are reported to have worked on this bill. For instance, in 2025 the individual income tax rates are set to expire, meaning that Congress will then have to pass further legislation to either increase or decrease the rates. However, corporations have no expiration date. Meaning, that when the full ramifications of these rates are felt by working Americans, it is on their backs and in their paychecks that the Congress will pay for these mistakes. Which brings me to my next contention which is that any tax cut is essentially a gamble on the future. And every non-partisan think-tank asserts that the generation that is going to be hit the hardest by these cuts are the millennials—which ironically make up the largest generational demographic in America. The problem is, the millennial generation is now entering a workforce in which starting average wages are lower than those form 1970 (adjusted for inflation) and furthermore they are entering this workforce with an average of over $30,000 in student debt. So not only are future generations at a severe disadvantage, but now they are going to have to pick up the tab for the Republican tax gift to corporate donors.",
      "shortname": "2017 Tax cuts"
    },
    {
      "question": "Is the level of national debt a concern? What, if anything, should be done to reduce it or constrain its increase?",
      "answer": "Because of our national debt, we are unable to fully fund the most important basic services and agencies that support our neighbors and communities. While our government will purchase billions of dollars-worth of defense contracts, it can't even ensure that every family, veteran, or disabled American has a roof over their heads. Our national debt is a grave concern to me not only because of the misappropriation of funding, but because our legislators simply forget that they have an inherent fiduciary responsibility to tax payers; and to see that their tax dollars are spent not to secure their re-election campaign, but to provide the most basic of rights and services to every American. Which is why I am running a campaign that is not actively fundraising, and most notably operating on less than $20,000. Not because I can't fundraise, but because I have chosen not to. I want to show every Marylander that not only can I run a competitive campaign on limited resources, but I can do the same with our government. Everyone talks about being \"fiscally responsible\", but how many Congressional Candidates have actually proven it? And that is the same focused responsibility that I serve in office with as your next Representative in the United States Congress.",
      "shortname": "National debt"
    },
    {
      "question": "Is the level of economic inequality in the United States a problem, and if so, what should the federal government do to address it?",
      "answer": "The exponential rise of economic inequality across the United States is a huge problem that is eroding our middle class. In summary, and having studied this problem, economic inequality is the root for many of the issues we see across the United States. From education, to healthcare, to poverty, and crime, the main basis for many of these issues relates back to the lack of wealth dispersion across socio-economic classes. How can we fix it? I, along with Nobel Prize winner Joseph Stiglitz, believe it's rather simple; jobs. While the unemployment rate reported by the Bureau of Labor Statistics may seem relatively low, what it doesn't show is the under-employment statistics; meaning the number of people working yet receiving lower than market wages. As I've said previously, average starting wages today are lower than those from 1970. These stagnant wages, with increased costs of living, have been a catalyst for this growing economic divide across the country. In order to combat this, our government needs to provide jobs programs aimed at allowing citizens to attain, retain, and thrive in 21st century family-wage paying jobs; which is exactly what my \"JoLT 21\" jobs program is designed for. Until then, and as our workforce continues to be underpaid and undervalued, the dispersion of wealth will continue to polarize, and the inequality across our society will further deepen. Which is why it's imperative that our next Representatives in Congress not only address this but have a plan to fix it.",
      "shortname": "Income inequality"
    },
    {
      "question": "Should federal gun laws be changed, and if so, how?",
      "answer": "As a combat veteran, and responsible gun owner myself, I believe that our current gun laws are out of date. In the wake of the most recent school shootings, I've had the opportunity to speak with students from across Maryland, whether at the 'March for Our Lives' demonstrations or at local town hall forums. In talking with them, one thing is certainly clear; they are sick of the status quo of nothing being done. The first part of solving any problem is first realizing that there is one; America has a gun problem. In Congress, I will sponsor and support responsible gun safety legislation that reinstates the \"Assault Weapons Ban of 1994\". Having served in the United States Army, and continuing to serve in the Army National Guard, I believe that assault weapons have no place on our streets or in our communities. They are designed for one thing and one thing only; combat. I will also support and sponsor any legislation that outlaws any and all weapon modifications that allow semi-automatic weapons to be turned into automatic weapons of war, and legislation that bans high capacity magazines.",
      "shortname": "Gun laws"
    },
    {
      "question": "What should Congress do with respect to the Affordable Care Act? Should it be strengthened, and if so, how? Should it be scrapped? If so, what if anything should replace it?",
      "answer": "The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 was a monumental step towards ensuring that all Americans are have the right to quality and affordable healthcare. However, and just as President Obama has stated, that it's not a perfect system. The ACA is just the first step towards ensuring that every American, regardless of age, race, gender, or socio-economic status is able to see a doctor and receive treatment and preventative care. I believe that we must continue this fight towards universal healthcare for all. It's a tough challenge, but when the number one reason for family bankruptcy across America is due to soaring healthcare costs, or when a mother has to decide between purchasing prescription drugs or groceries for her children, or when a sick patient is faced with death because their insurance won't cover their treatment, then this is a fight we must be willing to take on. Healthcare is a universal right for all, and as your next Representative in Congress, I will fight to make that a reality.",
      "shortname": "ACA"
    },
    {
      "question": "What role should the federal government play in helping cities like Baltimore?",
      "answer": "The federal government must allow states to govern, and for cities to thrive, with only minor interference from the \"invisible hand\" of the federal government. That said, when cities begin to fail and our citizens begin to suffer, it is the impetus and duty of the federal government to step in and provide resources to rebuild and revive those institutions. In the case of Baltimore, which has unfortunately more than our fair share of civic issues, this could be a case study on the opportunity for the federal government to revive the once bustling economic engine of the Mid-Atlantic region. In these cases, the federal government should establish a \"Tiger Team\" comprised of representatives from each governmental agency to not just study, but implement revival strategies and investments. These teams should be independent of local and state officials as to not be influenced, and as a means to provide outside and third-party consultation. The results of such will not only rebuild and revive cities, but in many cases will provide for new ideas, new initiatives, and new investments to help bring cities like Baltimore back into the 21st century.",
      "shortname": "Urban policy"
    },
    {
      "question": "What can Congress do to address the opioid epidemic?",
      "answer": "The current opioid epidemic across the Country is very reminiscent of the crack epidemic of the 1980s. If there's one lesson to be learned in how to deal with this situations, the first thing is that mass incarceration is not the answer. Congress must develop and implement new, 21st century, solutions to this ongoing epidemic. In a recent survey, nearly 52% of Marylanders reported of knowing someone who has or had an opioid addiction. However, these rates are not isolated to only Maryland, or specific to only the United States. In the 1980s and 1990s, Germany was plagued with very similar statistics in terms of opioid addiction rates and overdoses. Yet today, many of their cities can be considered a beacon for how to handle these drug epidemics. Several of the measures emplaced in specifically in Frankfurt included counseling services and points of contact, run by authorities, health care services, religious communities, self-help groups, and other drug addiction specialists. Additionally, in 2009, German authorities offered a controlled supply of diamorphine, a substitution therapy for longtime addicts covered by German health insurance. Their solutions to addressing these problems went against the conventional wisdom of conservative factions and law enforcement, however, the statistics of their success is proof that these types of modern day solutions can, and will work. Our Congress needs to adapt to the 21st century, and bring 21st century solutions to our current problems and crises.",
      "shortname": "Opioids"
    },
    {
      "question": "What changes if any should Congress make to our immigration and deportation laws and policies?",
      "answer": "First and foremost, Congress must pass legislation to provide a path to citizenship for the 690,000 \"Dreamers\" in America through no fault or choice of their own; of which Maryland has approximately 10,000 of. America was, is, and forever will be the land of opportunity. And as your next Representative in Congress, I will ensure that nothing ever infringes on the inalienable rights of life, liberty, and happiness for all. As the great-grandson of an Italian immigrant, who came to the United States when Italians were amongst some of the most heavily persecuted and discriminated ethnicities, I try to imagine what life was like in the early 1900s for he and his young wife. I can't begin to imagine the struggles they endured once they arrived at Ellis Island. And your next Representative, I will fight to bring our immigration and deportation laws and policies into the 21st century. We must have common sense immigration reform, and reduce the bureaucracy associated with a path to citizenship. But that said, we also need to reform our vetting and tracking systems to ensure the mechanisms with which people come into our country are those who will be contributing members of our American society. I firmly believe that we can have common sense immigration laws, while being empathetic and compassionate at the same time; as they are not mutually exclusive.",
      "shortname": "Immigration"
    },
    {
      "question": "Should the United States continue with the free trade policies it pursued for the last several decades, or should it enact restrictions in an attempt to help domestic industries?",
      "answer": "As I have studied at length international business and policy, I understand that many of our trade policies are vastly outdated. As a country that now exports more services than products, this imbalance is due in part to the unregulated workforces in countries like China, Vietnam, and Thailand. By that, the cost of producing a product in the United States is higher than producing in a country like China, mainly because in the US we have labor standards, health standards, and workers rights standards that must be met. In China for instance, they don't have these requirements and therefore the cost to produce goods, or the costs of goods sold, is much lower. Understanding that, in order to have free and fair trade policies, the United States must understand that bi-lateral and multi-lateral trade agreements must be revisited on a consistent basis. I believe in free trade, all the while promoting fair trade. In order for us to protect American workers, promote our values, and ensure level prices, we must ensure our trading partners are enacting and enforcing labor laws and standards for their workforce. In doing so, this provide incentives for off-shored companies to move back stateside, and rebuild our vanished manufacturing base.",
      "shortname": "Free trade"
    },
    {
      "question": "Do you support the Iran nuclear deal?",
      "answer": "I agree with and support the Iran nuclear deal, as do all permanent members of the United Nations Security Council, along with our key allies in the Middle East. Many critics argue that this deal will provide a pathway for Iran to develop nuclear weapons; but that simply isn't the case. The mechanisms placed by the United Nations and the International Atomic Energy Agency provide for transparency in Iran's nuclear energy programs, and limits the use for key components in developing nuclear weapons. Additionally, as do many of our other European key allies, I believe that relieving many of the sanctions on Iran can actually facilitate better relations with this country and be a gateway to solving many of the problems we and others face across the globe. The era of cold war politics is over, and we need to understand that while we can be firm and resolute in our beliefs and convictions, we must also aim for global prosperity and peace through diplomacy.",
      "shortname": "Iran"
    },
    {
      "question": "How should the United States address the rise of North Korea’s nuclear program?",
      "answer": "The rise of North Korea's nuclear program, along with their threatening rhetoric, is one of the greatest existential dangers we face in the United States. And therefore I believe the United States must ensure our security and safety and advocate for the disarmament of North Korea and the abandonment of their nuclear program. The United States should leverage trade agreements and sanctions with countries that conduct trade with North Korea until a permanent treaty of non-proliferation is agreed to, and signed by North Korea and allies of the United States. Additionally, our relationship with South Korea should be the catalyst to bring all parties to the table to negotiate such a treaty. Until that point, we will continue to face the threats poised by the North Korean Dictator, and continue to face the uncertainty caused by a radical, nuclear, tyrant.",
      "shortname": "North Korea"
    }
  ],
  "race": "us-house",
  "residence": "Baltimore",
  "social-fb": "demarco4rep/",
  "social-tw": "adamdemarco",
  "survey-response": true,
  "title": "Adam D. DeMarco",
  "web": "http://www.electdemarco.com"
}
