{
  "age": 73,
  "background": "Candidate's response/answer. 50 years instruction contractor builder developer. 30 years fighting corruption in our nation's courts as a pro se litigant/investigative reporter/victims rights advocate, approximately 18,000 docket entries 120+ court cases since 1995 All public record also fighting the Gilbert Sapperstein crime syndicate its lawyers judges and accountants protected by the FBI and DOJ",
  "directory": "content/us-house/district-4",
  "district": 4,
  "dob": "06/12/1945",
  "education": ". Graduated vocational school 1963 Newark New Jersey by 1995 started 5 businesses that each grossed over million dollars a year 1984 employed 250 people gross receipts 1/4 million dollars a month.. All businesses destroyed by corrupt courts advanced education school of hard knocks, starting in 1995 candidate became a victim of our corrupt judicial system and was forced to learn him and educate himself on the laws of self representation purchased 1st law book 1995. 23 years later is now forced to defend the Constitution of the United States against fictitious Corporation operating as the incorporated United States Title 22 USC (Foreign Relations and Intercourse) Chapter 11 identifies all public officials as foreign agents. Title 28 USC 3002 Section 15A states that the United States is a Federal Corporation and not a Government, including the Judiciary Procedural Section. SEE. Organization Immunities Act relinquished every public office of the United States to the United Nations. Title 8 USC 1481 stated once an oath of office is taken citizenship is relinquished, thus you become a foreign entity, agency, or state. That means every public office is a foreign state, including all political subdivisions. (i.e. every single court and that courts personnel is considered a separate foreign entity)candidate had been forced to sue the United States government for treason against the Constitution and federal courts in Washington DC USDC – DC 98 – CV – 1235 McDermott v. Department of Justice and ABA again US court of federal claims case #17 – 09, plus US court of appeals Federal Circuit case #17 – 1790. All cases dismissed with forged unsigned orders Title 28 USC 3002 Section 15A states that the United States is a Federal Corporation and not a Government, including the Judiciary Procedural Section. candidates education is ongoing Candidates education is ongoing recently advising the president/CEO of treason against our Constitution letter published@secretjustice.com no response from our corporate CEO or any of his subordinates as to treason charges under title 18 USC 2342 – 2343- treason against the organic Constitution and sedition and rebellion by the president , members of Congress, and noncitizen judges of the United States conspiring to overthrow the rule of law. And our organic Constitution/Bill of Rights which must be preserved by we the people and the media. . Candidate has also held a press pass since 2008 reporting on corruption in the courts and victims of judicial abuse, financial and legal terrorism, and the failure of our Justice Department and FBI to provide honest services all citizens of this nation not just be a puppet of a Federal Corporation and its CEO acting under color of law/authority. END of question the educational",
  "filename": "george-mcdermott.md",
  "full-name": "George McDermott",
  "jurisdiction": "Prince George's County",
  "last-name": "McDermott",
  "party": "Republican",
  "questions": [
    {
      "question": "How do you assess the Trump administration so far?",
      "answer": "Candidates personal assessment of president/CEO Donald Trump's 1st 15 months in office he and his cabinet have earned a 0 to 15% approval rating from this candidate in his management of the affairs of the private for-profit corporation described by law as (\"Title 22 USC (Foreign Relations and Intercourse) Chapter 11 identifies all public officials as foreign agents. Title 28 USC 3002 Section 15A states that the United States is a Federal Corporation and not a Government, including the Judiciary Procedural Section. Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (FRCP) 4j states that the Court jurisdiction and immunity fall under a foreign State. This candidate asserts that the fictitious head of the United States of America Donald Trump and his corporate Board of Directors those members of the U.S. House and Senate also private corporate officers are diminishing the integrity of the United States both at home and around the world creating a level of uncertainty by placing cabinet officers in positions where they benefit the cabinet officers personal beliefs over the welfare of the United States and its citizens. The CEO and his cabinet are clearly elitist caring only for the top 15% of corporate entities and the 2% of the wealthiest in the world of the best interest of our nation as a whole. I feared the long-term effects on the survivability of this great nation and its people based on the disrespect the CEO and his cabinet members disrespect for the founding fathers intent and purpose.",
      "shortname": "Trump record"
    },
    {
      "question": "Do you support or oppose the federal tax cuts passed in 2017? What effect do you believe they will have on the economy?",
      "answer": "Of course as a candidate I object to the recent tax cuts per past year as they appear to only support the 2% of wealthy corporations for placing the president in office and donating almost in the legend $1,000,000,000 to his 2016 campaign. For the office . I disagree that poster's claims by the administration this tax act will strengthen United States of America myself and numerous educators in tax matters disagree. The tax act does nothing to prevent waste fraud and abuse by corporate wrongdoers municipal corporations and state corporate officers failing to provide honest services to the citizens and inhabitants of this great nation. Many economists see severe cuts in our healthcare systems, environmental and educational institutions. Transportation and infrastructure research and development by the CDC and DHHS funding to be detrimental to the long-term prosperity of this nation.tax The TAX reform act also through its rush to approval covered many pork-barrel projects and special interest projects detrimental to the financial survi-ability of our economy while at the same time cutting deep into social programsand safety nets to our seniors and war veterans who are being deceased of the property in their legal rights by government corporations abusing the rule of law and their oath of office to provide honest services to all citizens of this nation not give preference to the top 2% of the wealthiest and 15% of corporate officers and agents servicing that 2% as fellow corporate insiders fleecing our economy. With forged documents.",
      "shortname": "2017 Tax cuts"
    },
    {
      "question": "Is the level of national debt a concern? What, if anything, should be done to reduce it or constrain its increase?",
      "answer": "YES Of course as a candidate I deeply concerned about the national debt which in 2000 was recorded to be less than $2,000,000,000,000 and as of last check is reportedly $ 21,046,382,362,357 over a 10 fold increase in 18 years. Of course this is mainly due to the fact that corporate officers of the United States Inc. and its affiliates corporate officers in the states governments, Department of Justice and states Attorney's offices have conveniently looked the other way as corporate international bankers and national bankers have been allowed to steal over 77,000,000 homes and businesses from our fellow Americans. With forge documents yet not one corporate officer or the judges involved have been held accountable for this travesty of injustice. This candidate has been fighting for accountability and fighting against waste fraud and abuse in our judicial and legislative state and federal offices of 28 years 1st is a victim himself now as of victims rights advocate. His efforts can be chronicled @ secretjustice.com and @ georgemcdermott.com over 1150 programs available for public view. If elected to Congress this candidate would as priority number 1 introduce legislation to recover from the banks the trillions upon trillions of dollars stolen from our nation's economy by corporate banking institutions national and international as well as officers of court facilitate these frauds on our treasury and our fellow citizens while lining their pockets with gold paybacks for treason against the Constitution and rule of law.",
      "shortname": "National debt"
    },
    {
      "question": "Is the level of economic inequality in the United States a problem, and if so, what should the federal government do to address it?",
      "answer": "yes in equity exist in the our now private for-profit corporate United States as defined see Congress passed the Organic Act of 1871, which created a government corporation within the District of Columbia, called: UNITED STATES OF AMERICA December 9th 1945 International Organization Immunities Act relinquished every public office of the United States to the United Nations. 22 CFR 92.12-92.31 FR Heading \"Foreign Relationship\" states that an oath is required to take office. Title 8 USC 1481 stated once an oath of office is taken citizenship is relinquished, thus you become a foreign entity, agency, or state. That means every public office is a foreign state, these above acts by previous congresses which 99% of Americans are not aware of have separated our country into the haves and have-nots. Those corporate agents of the new United States Inc. who are no longer citizens of these United States of America believe they have some sort of judicial and sovereign immunity making their actions and in-actions immune from prosecution and persecution from the rest of the general public and society. Basically if you do not belong to 1 of these corporations you are a slave of these corporations no longer protected by the organic Constitution of the United States or the Bill of Rights. Yet as taxpayers we the general population have to pay for the wrongdoing of these corporate agents subverting our Constitution.it's our duty as citizens to hold the court officers and corporate agents responsible for the criminal misconduct",
      "shortname": "Income inequality"
    },
    {
      "question": "Should federal gun laws be changed, and if so, how?",
      "answer": "This candidate's position is definitely yes. once again our organic Constitution granted our citizens right to bear arms as at the time of adoption this new Republic was without fully staffed armies to protect our citizens whose restaurant and southern movements in the hostile territories meant that many families needed to form militias to protect their friends and neighbors from subversives and the Native Americans corporate America wanted to take their land for their own. Our Second Amendment to the organic Constitution may still be in as corporate America did not abolish this right as far as this candidate can discern. SEE Title 22 USC (Foreign Relations and Intercourse) Chapter 11 identifies all public officials as foreign agents. Title 28 USC 3002 Section 15A states that the United States is a Federal Corporation and not a Government, including the Judiciary Procedural Section. (\"and no one has challenged this act of Congress legally\"). However this candidate believes that the Second Amendment was never intended by our founding fathers to allow for weapons of the 21st century used by militaries around the world to be purchased and used by common citizens especially without proper checks and balances to prevent the mass killings of our citizens with these militarized weapons which are sold without background checks, without licensing and are now being used indiscriminately kill masses of children attending schools churches and places of assembly. We need to band the NRA and its members buying the influence of our legislative/judicial leaders.",
      "shortname": "Gun laws"
    },
    {
      "question": "What should Congress do with respect to the Affordable Care Act? Should it be strengthened, and if so, how? Should it be scrapped? If so, what if anything should replace it?",
      "answer": "1st and foremost the Congress should act in the best interest of the citizens of these United States and not the lobbyists and corporate special interest groups supporting private interest for-profit corporations fleecing our American citizens and our healthcare systems of trillions of dollars, on one hand you have corporate lawyers lobbying Congress paying for political campaigns for private for-profit corporations special legislation and bills/resolutions. And on the other hand you have corporate lawyers protecting medical service corporations their agents and assigns engaged in Medicare and Medicaid fraud by recipients and doctors. And yet you have A- 3rd group of for-profit legal corporations acting as states attorneys offices US attorneys offices FBI agents and Justice Department personnel turning a blind eye to the acts of their fellow bar members in many cases fearing to upset the apple cart by prosecuting the subversive acts against our Constitution. This candidate being 73 years old has great concerns about the future of our healthcare and social system in this nation if our Justice Department would crackdown on the waste fraud and abuse in the flagrant overcharging of pharmaceutical suppliers and distributors the current system could be made to work yet this administration is expending huge amounts of resources to make sure that the classes of citizens who fall through the cracks are deceased of their access to proper healthcare which will only add to the financial distress of this nation all we can do is pray that, heads will prevail .",
      "shortname": "ACA"
    },
    {
      "question": "What role should the federal government play in helping cities like Baltimore?",
      "answer": "The city of Baltimore as well as the state of Maryland both as private for-profit corporations are being decimated white-collar criminals and Maryland's Mafia control courts are both the Maryland Atty. Gen.'s office and the US attorneys offices and their agents refused to investigate and prosecute the criminal misconduct of organizations such as the Gilbert Sapperstein crime syndicate operating out of Greenspring Maryland. and their affiliated businesses this papers investigative reporters are fully aware of. And this candidate has been victimized by repeatedly. As reported by WBAL investigative news reporter Jane Miller January 9, 2018 Gilbert Sapperstein's criminal misconduct in 2005 which he never served a day's time for is still shutting down schools in Baltimore by federal and state prosecutors are scared of the criminal mafia leaders influence in Annapolis and continue to look the other way excerpt from story states (\" Duklewski, who owned of a boiler company, Gilbert Sapperstein, and Rajiv Dixit, the former school facilities chief, were all convicted in 2005 in a long-running corruption scheme that involved fake billing for work that was never done and kickbacks.\"). This candidate has bought for over 23 years to expose the corruption practices of the Sapperstein crime syndicate as court records will attest to in Maryland and federal courts. Ever since 1994 when the Sapperstein crime syndicate's henchmen stalled millions of dollars of assets from this candidate and his partners were allegedly $5. Now 20+ years later 200+ state and federal judges, states attorneys, D.O.J. are involved .",
      "shortname": "Urban policy"
    },
    {
      "question": "What can Congress do to address the opioid epidemic?",
      "answer": "Answer it is very clear stopped taking money from lobbyists for major pharmaceutical industries and start demanding that the FBI, the DOJ, and the ATF. Agency heads simply do their job all of their officers and agents have taken an oath of office as prescribed under. Emphasis supplied (\" December 9th 1945 International Organization Immunities Act relinquished every public office of the United States to the United Nations. 22 CFR 92.12-92.31 FR Heading \"Foreign Relationship\" states that an oath is required to take office. Title 8 USC 1481 stated once an oath of office is taken citizenship is relinquished, thus you become a foreign entity, agency, or state. That means every public office is a foreign state, including all political subdivisions. (i.e. every single court and that courts personnel is considered a separate foreign entity\"). it appears to be obvious to this Candidate which can be proven by court records and the (\"December 26th 1933 49 Statute 3097 Treaty Series 881 (Convention on Rights and Duties of States) stated CONGRESS replaced STATUTES with international law, placing all states under international law.\"). That international human rights laws are being violated by Mafia kingpins such as the Sapperstein crime syndicate . U.S.D.C.- DC. case #98 – CV – 1235 TPJ George McDermott versus United States Department of Justice and the American Bar Association et al. conspiracy to commit treason against the Constitution and giving aid and assistance to the Gilbert Sapperstein crime syndicate. See videos secretjustice.com court clerks even now obstructing justice",
      "shortname": "Opioids"
    },
    {
      "question": "What changes if any should Congress make to our immigration and deportation laws and policies?",
      "answer": "Answer, This candidate believes that it is ludicrous that Pres. Trump and all members of Congress whom according to their own law emphasis supplied (\" December 9th 1945 International Organization Immunities Act relinquished every public office of the United States to the United Nations. 22 CFR 92.12-92.31 FR Heading \"Foreign Relationship\" states that an oath is required to take office. Title 8 USC 1481 stated once an oath of office is taken citizenship is relinquished\"). Themselves are now foreign illegal aliens having relinquished their citizenship to become agents of a foreign government acting under human control and under international law. see letter to the president posted@secretjustice.com by this candidate alerting the president as to the treasonous acts of these foreign agents under 18 USC 2342 – 43. This candidate also believes that 99% of all inhabitants of the United States are direct descendents of immigrants who migrated to the organic United States of America and subsequently stole the property and wealth of Native Americans with the blessings of politicians and lawmakers and through the illegal use of force by our military enslave the Native American population and sees their property under color of law and authority.encouraging genocide. This candidate is of the belief that our president's current immigration policy and deportation policies will have the reverse effect of what the general public is asked to believe. Who will replace these immigrants who are said to harvest 70% of our nation's crops, replace the approximately 40% of blue-collar and service jobs.",
      "shortname": "Immigration"
    },
    {
      "question": "Should the United States continue with the free trade policies it pursued for the last several decades, or should it enact restrictions in an attempt to help domestic industries?",
      "answer": "This candidate not having studied the complete free trade agreement. which took years to put together by previous administrations. Must assume that the agreement was in the best interest of the US and its trading partners. However newly discovered evidence is revealed that the agents responsible for the these agreement's may in fact not had the best interest of the organic United States of America and our industrial base survivability as priority. As negotiators were working as private contractors as noncitizens having relinquished their citizenship emphasis supplied. See. (\" (\" December 9th 1945 International Organization Immunities Act relinquished every public office of the United States to the United Nations. 22 CFR 92.12-92.31 FR Heading \"Foreign Relationship\" states that an oath is required to take office. Title 8 USC 1481 stated once an oath of office is taken citizenship is relinquished\"). Themselves are now foreign illegal aliens having relinquished their citizenship to become agents of a foreign government acting under human control and under international law.\")\") Published statistics show that much of our industrial base has been liquidated and these corporations relocated their businesses to foreign lands with taxpayer assistance costing losses of millions of jobs, and inequitable trade balance in trade deficit making America a consumer nation instead of a producing nation. And every session starting in 2006 costing over 77,000,000 American families their homes and businesses. This candidate believes that the free trade agreement benefited very few Americans while enriching the top 2% of the wealthiest individuals and corporations",
      "shortname": "Free trade"
    },
    {
      "question": "Do you support the Iran nuclear deal?",
      "answer": "Answer yes I do. however it's time America stop its policy of saber rattling and come to the realization that all nations are sovereign and have certain inalienable rights to life liberty and property and the protection of the citizens. Pakistan, India, North Korea, China, Israel, are but a few of the nations possessing their own nuclear weapons. recent statistics show latest statistics show that emphasis supplied. (\" the United States and Russia still maintain the world's largest stockpiles of nuclear weapons, holding 92% of the world's estimated 15,000 nuclear warheads. While today's arsenals seem quite excessive, ...\") Yes it is excessive but as a child of the fifties I still see images of the 1st 2 atomic bombs devastation. The destruction of the world will not come from a nation possessing one learn more devices for its defense. it will come from one or more of the superpowers 15,000+ nuclear devices getting into the hands of extremist. It is time the world stop saber rattling as everyone knows and logic dictates and as Pres. Kennedy stated we now hold in our hands the power to abolish all life on this planet. With the benefit of our children and grandchildren and their children and grandchildren responsible legislative leaders and governments have a duty to their citizenry to work together as joint inhabitants on this earth. to act in humanitarian manner and the established international human rights laws to preserve this planet for future generations. Something our leadership has forgotten about",
      "shortname": "Iran"
    },
    {
      "question": "How should the United States address the rise of North Korea’s nuclear program?",
      "answer": "My personal views as a candidate is that the current policies of the last 50 years plus when the US failed to address the problem in North Korea. It has now come full circle 50 years of isolationism, economic deprivation, and humanitarian crisis has not stopped the development of a nuclear program by North Korea. The events of this year clearly show that rhetoric and threats of rhetoric will not work and have not worked in the past. The leadership of both nations are fully aware that a nuclear war is unwinnable all sovereign nations have the right to protect themselves against aggressors. It's time we stop the saber rattling as it appears to anyone of common sense the North and South delegations are about to meet. My prayers are that they will work to resolve their differences. Without the interference of third-party nations promoting their own agendas and political views of the best interest of all Koreans. These are the personal views of George E McDermott candidate for the United States Congress is Republican 2018 Maryland with congressional district. This candidate is still awaiting word from the legal department of the federal election commission as to whether if elected this candidate will also be required to surrender his citizenship in the organic United States of America. As this candidate does not recognize or support authority of the corporate United States of America. December 9th 1945 International Organization Immunities Act relinquished every public office of the United States",
      "shortname": "North Korea"
    }
  ],
  "race": "us-house",
  "residence": "Forest Heights",
  "survey-response": true,
  "title": "George McDermott",
  "web": "http://www.georgemcdermott.com"
}
