{
  "a1": "The greatest accomplishment of the Kamenetz administration stem from one issue in the 7th district: The illicit sale of the Baltimore County North Point Government Center. With Mr. Kamenetz forcing the illicit sale of this building he accomplished becoming the most despised county executive in the 7th district to ever serve 8 years. This was such an egregious and malicious administrative act which garnered over 10,000 signed petitioners that it currently sits at the highest levels of our state in suspension with the board of public works who's members are the governor or MD, Lawrence Hogan, comptroller of Maryland, Peter Franchot and the treasurer of Maryland, Nancy Kopp. Additionally, Dundalk United members are still engaged in a civil action that cost the community untold hours of volunteerism that could've been devoted to the benefit of community members, untold amounts of money that could've went to community benefit instead of lawyer fees against the very government that we pay taxes to support and pay for the very officials that we elect that are legally bound to follow in any democratic society the people, whom they derive their power from, the electorate.",
  "a2": "When one says \"Baltimore County,\" one has to say who is Baltimore county? Baltimore County is the residents, the businesses, the tax payers of this area. So, rephrasing the question, do the residents, businesses, tax payers have adequate resources to meet its needs? Categorically, yes. Are we properly resourced with an administration? If we were, I would not be running for office in the 7th District of Baltimore County. I believe that the residents of Baltimore County at a community level need to be engaged and informed of the cost of each individual school within their community and how the cost of renovations or replacement of these schools will affect the budget in these most trying times with pensions coming due, state pensions coming due and the fact that we're funding industrial redevelopment at Sparrows Point in the hundreds of millions, yet there's no question in this questionnaire about whether we have money to fund them. Yet, you're asking me if we have money to fund our children's schools. How did the current councilman force through (without a complete disclosure) a tax incremental resolution that he himself doesn't understand, much less the communities he's supposed to represent? I pose, if we have hundreds of millions to finance industrial development, we certainly have money to fund the development of our children!",
  "a3": "I was sent a Facebook a link for Mr. Steve McIntire (candiate for State Delegate for District 42A). After viewing his piece , I am unequivocally stunned by the content of this video (facebook.com/McIntire4MD). It calls into question everything that a democratic society stands for. Transparency and accountability. Until every question of Mr. McIntire's video has been adequately answered, I can in no way in good conscious support Baltimore County's housing consent decree.",
  "a4": "It is glaringly apparent of the complete failure of Baltimore County to provide adequate oversight with the school system with the recent national scandal of Dallas Dance. It is my sincere hope that with my elected school board, we will be spared any additional future denigration of the office of Superintendent of Baltimore County Schools.",
  "a5": "First there should be a moratorium if not a complete suspension of Planned Unit Developments. I'm personally aware of multiple communities that have raised overwhelming opposition to these giants of the oligarchy where they get preferential treatment circumventing the zoning laws at the expense of the communities. I personally testified in December against the 43 million dollars that was awarded from the taxpayer coffers from the Baltimore county citizens to the benefit of a developer because of their geotechnical mistake - an amount argued upwards of 43 million dollars which could've paid for one and a half brand new elementary schools in our county. The county administrator and the department of planning have almost turned a complete blind eye to all of the technology that conclusively shows that preserving older buildings eliminates further greenhouse emissions from the production of new building materials while at the same time preserving our cultural heritage. Endless articles have been published by the national trust historic that are readily available to the public including the planning and county administrators. with all of our shorelines slated for a 1 to 2 foot sea level rise by 2050 I would be a strong advocate of any measures that would reduce greenhouse gases while preserving the history of our county for our children and our children's children.",
  "a6": "I must admit that as a community leader and as a leader of the Civic Council for the entire 7th district with strong ties and respect to our first-responders, admittedly with my experience as a trained a Citizen on Patrol member and a member of the 12th Precinct Police Community Relations Council, I believe the relationship between Baltimore County Police and communities are good. The question is the judicial. In my opinion, the police are just half of the equation - recently a man was arrested after a dramatic accident at the intersection of Wise & Merritt Blvd. crippling a woman in after striking her with his car while intoxicated. This was his 3rd offense driving while intoxicated. By the time he appeared in court for this 3rd DWI, he had been charged with driving without a license. His punishment was 0 days in jail by a city judge that was brought in to hear this case. Law enforcement can arrest all the criminals 24/7, but without proper adjudication and sentencing to modify their behavior and conform to social standards, we will continue, unfortunately to see more DWI's, 3rd offenders - destroying peoples lives.",
  "a7": "The county nor the state funds survey work at sufficiently high levels, because both parties favor development. They want to tear down and develop the rest of Maryland. Baltimore County is already over 55% developed. The State land area was already 30% developed by 2010. Since then 68,000 additional housing units were built in Maryland There are at least 8,000 more units already zoned for the Baltimore County rural area. All elected officials, blue and red and purple need to grandfather this out with a combination of a Transfer of Density Rights program (TDR), purchase of development rights, in addition to the conservation easements and some downzoning. The county and state's natural heritage is steadily disappearing. Less birds, less forests, more buildings, more roads every year. The same state and county administrations that teach \"environmental sustainability\" in the schools issue permits from the zoning counter (or state licenses) everyday to further destroy the environment. It seems like there's a \"greenwashing\" system to make it seem like something is getting done when it clearly is not.",
  "a8": "Baltimore County lent assistance of both tax payer money and life and limb contending with the riots recently experienced. I believe Baltimore County's support for the cultural institution of civility in Baltimore City was demonstrated in an exemplary manner with that assistance. To my knowledge, the good tax payers of Baltimore Co have never been reimbursed monetarily for that assistance. So to your answer, I think the good people of Baltimore County and our first-responders have been generous in their support. There is no greater support for your neighbors than risking your life to help them in time of need.",
  "a9": "By nature Baltimore County is a suburb and as a suburb its growth was largely due to personal transportation. Currently, many citizens of our district commute anywhere from 20 minutes to 2 hours a day to their places of employment. It can be readily seen at Back River Neck Bridge to 695. The beltway traffic is worse now than when they expanded the lanes. I experience this every morning on my way to work. So, when we have tens of thousands of automobiles in transit every day around 695, 95, 97, 295, & 895, I submit to you; this question is highly debatable and requires intensive study.",
  "age": 34,
  "background": "I've been working at one of the states largest photography and printing labs for over 10 years becoming lab manager. I've also served as an employee of CCBC Dundalk & Essex as a work study, tutor and teacher.",
  "directory": "content/baltimore-county/county-council/district-7",
  "district": 7,
  "dob": "12/19/1983",
  "education": "I graduated Sollers Point Tech with honors and Dundalk High School. I began attending CCBC Dundalk during my last year of High School and continued at CCBC Essex.",
  "filename": "dave-rader.md",
  "full-name": "Dave Rader",
  "headshot": "http://surveygizmoresponseuploads.s3.amazonaws.com/fileuploads/296249/4299880/245-eaf1778742529582274e6ccab532c182_SPG_0734-2_RT2_RT.jpg",
  "last-name": "Rader",
  "party": "Republican",
  "q1": "What do you consider the greatest accomplishments and failings of the Kamenetz administration?",
  "q2": "Does Baltimore County have adequate resources to meet its needs, particularly to renovate or replace aging schools? Do you support increasing the property tax or local income tax?",
  "q3": "Do you support Baltimore County's federal housing consent decree? In particular, do you support a prohibition on rental discrimination against those who use federal housing vouchers?",
  "q4": "Does the county government exercise adequate oversight over the school system?",
  "q5": "What role can the county play in assisting in the preservation or revitalization of aging communities?",
  "q6": "How would you characterize the relationship between the Baltimore County police and the communities they serve? Are any reforms necessary?",
  "q7": "Baltimore County was a pioneer in rural land preservation. Do its zoning policies and the Urban-Rural Demarcation Line continue to serve the county's needs?",
  "q8": "Is Baltimore County's support for cultural institutions in Baltimore City too little, too much or just right?",
  "q9": "Is Baltimore County adequately served by mass transit?",
  "questions": [
    {
      "question": "What do you consider the greatest accomplishments and failings of the Kamenetz administration?",
      "answer": "The greatest accomplishment of the Kamenetz administration stem from one issue in the 7th district: The illicit sale of the Baltimore County North Point Government Center. With Mr. Kamenetz forcing the illicit sale of this building he accomplished becoming the most despised county executive in the 7th district to ever serve 8 years. This was such an egregious and malicious administrative act which garnered over 10,000 signed petitioners that it currently sits at the highest levels of our state in suspension with the board of public works who's members are the governor or MD, Lawrence Hogan, comptroller of Maryland, Peter Franchot and the treasurer of Maryland, Nancy Kopp. Additionally, Dundalk United members are still engaged in a civil action that cost the community untold hours of volunteerism that could've been devoted to the benefit of community members, untold amounts of money that could've went to community benefit instead of lawyer fees against the very government that we pay taxes to support and pay for the very officials that we elect that are legally bound to follow in any democratic society the people, whom they derive their power from, the electorate.",
      "shortname": "Kamenetz record"
    },
    {
      "question": "Does Baltimore County have adequate resources to meet its needs, particularly to renovate or replace aging schools? Do you support increasing the property tax or local income tax?",
      "answer": "When one says \"Baltimore County,\" one has to say who is Baltimore county? Baltimore County is the residents, the businesses, the tax payers of this area. So, rephrasing the question, do the residents, businesses, tax payers have adequate resources to meet its needs? Categorically, yes. Are we properly resourced with an administration? If we were, I would not be running for office in the 7th District of Baltimore County. I believe that the residents of Baltimore County at a community level need to be engaged and informed of the cost of each individual school within their community and how the cost of renovations or replacement of these schools will affect the budget in these most trying times with pensions coming due, state pensions coming due and the fact that we're funding industrial redevelopment at Sparrows Point in the hundreds of millions, yet there's no question in this questionnaire about whether we have money to fund them. Yet, you're asking me if we have money to fund our children's schools. How did the current councilman force through (without a complete disclosure) a tax incremental resolution that he himself doesn't understand, much less the communities he's supposed to represent? I pose, if we have hundreds of millions to finance industrial development, we certainly have money to fund the development of our children!",
      "shortname": "Resources/Taxes"
    },
    {
      "question": "Do you support Baltimore County's federal housing consent decree? In particular, do you support a prohibition on rental discrimination against those who use federal housing vouchers?",
      "answer": "I was sent a Facebook a link for Mr. Steve McIntire (candiate for State Delegate for District 42A). After viewing his piece , I am unequivocally stunned by the content of this video (facebook.com/McIntire4MD). It calls into question everything that a democratic society stands for. Transparency and accountability. Until every question of Mr. McIntire's video has been adequately answered, I can in no way in good conscious support Baltimore County's housing consent decree.",
      "shortname": "Housing"
    },
    {
      "question": "Does the county government exercise adequate oversight over the school system?",
      "answer": "It is glaringly apparent of the complete failure of Baltimore County to provide adequate oversight with the school system with the recent national scandal of Dallas Dance. It is my sincere hope that with my elected school board, we will be spared any additional future denigration of the office of Superintendent of Baltimore County Schools.",
      "shortname": "School system"
    },
    {
      "question": "What role can the county play in assisting in the preservation or revitalization of aging communities?",
      "answer": "First there should be a moratorium if not a complete suspension of Planned Unit Developments. I'm personally aware of multiple communities that have raised overwhelming opposition to these giants of the oligarchy where they get preferential treatment circumventing the zoning laws at the expense of the communities. I personally testified in December against the 43 million dollars that was awarded from the taxpayer coffers from the Baltimore county citizens to the benefit of a developer because of their geotechnical mistake - an amount argued upwards of 43 million dollars which could've paid for one and a half brand new elementary schools in our county. The county administrator and the department of planning have almost turned a complete blind eye to all of the technology that conclusively shows that preserving older buildings eliminates further greenhouse emissions from the production of new building materials while at the same time preserving our cultural heritage. Endless articles have been published by the national trust historic that are readily available to the public including the planning and county administrators. with all of our shorelines slated for a 1 to 2 foot sea level rise by 2050 I would be a strong advocate of any measures that would reduce greenhouse gases while preserving the history of our county for our children and our children's children.",
      "shortname": "Revitalization"
    },
    {
      "question": "How would you characterize the relationship between the Baltimore County police and the communities they serve? Are any reforms necessary?",
      "answer": "I must admit that as a community leader and as a leader of the Civic Council for the entire 7th district with strong ties and respect to our first-responders, admittedly with my experience as a trained a Citizen on Patrol member and a member of the 12th Precinct Police Community Relations Council, I believe the relationship between Baltimore County Police and communities are good. The question is the judicial. In my opinion, the police are just half of the equation - recently a man was arrested after a dramatic accident at the intersection of Wise & Merritt Blvd. crippling a woman in after striking her with his car while intoxicated. This was his 3rd offense driving while intoxicated. By the time he appeared in court for this 3rd DWI, he had been charged with driving without a license. His punishment was 0 days in jail by a city judge that was brought in to hear this case. Law enforcement can arrest all the criminals 24/7, but without proper adjudication and sentencing to modify their behavior and conform to social standards, we will continue, unfortunately to see more DWI's, 3rd offenders - destroying peoples lives.",
      "shortname": "Police"
    },
    {
      "question": "Baltimore County was a pioneer in rural land preservation. Do its zoning policies and the Urban-Rural Demarcation Line continue to serve the county's needs?",
      "answer": "The county nor the state funds survey work at sufficiently high levels, because both parties favor development. They want to tear down and develop the rest of Maryland. Baltimore County is already over 55% developed. The State land area was already 30% developed by 2010. Since then 68,000 additional housing units were built in Maryland There are at least 8,000 more units already zoned for the Baltimore County rural area. All elected officials, blue and red and purple need to grandfather this out with a combination of a Transfer of Density Rights program (TDR), purchase of development rights, in addition to the conservation easements and some downzoning. The county and state's natural heritage is steadily disappearing. Less birds, less forests, more buildings, more roads every year. The same state and county administrations that teach \"environmental sustainability\" in the schools issue permits from the zoning counter (or state licenses) everyday to further destroy the environment. It seems like there's a \"greenwashing\" system to make it seem like something is getting done when it clearly is not.",
      "shortname": "Zoning"
    },
    {
      "question": "Is Baltimore County's support for cultural institutions in Baltimore City too little, too much or just right?",
      "answer": "Baltimore County lent assistance of both tax payer money and life and limb contending with the riots recently experienced. I believe Baltimore County's support for the cultural institution of civility in Baltimore City was demonstrated in an exemplary manner with that assistance. To my knowledge, the good tax payers of Baltimore Co have never been reimbursed monetarily for that assistance. So to your answer, I think the good people of Baltimore County and our first-responders have been generous in their support. There is no greater support for your neighbors than risking your life to help them in time of need.",
      "shortname": "Baltimore City"
    },
    {
      "question": "Is Baltimore County adequately served by mass transit?",
      "answer": "By nature Baltimore County is a suburb and as a suburb its growth was largely due to personal transportation. Currently, many citizens of our district commute anywhere from 20 minutes to 2 hours a day to their places of employment. It can be readily seen at Back River Neck Bridge to 695. The beltway traffic is worse now than when they expanded the lanes. I experience this every morning on my way to work. So, when we have tens of thousands of automobiles in transit every day around 695, 95, 97, 295, & 895, I submit to you; this question is highly debatable and requires intensive study.",
      "shortname": "Transit"
    }
  ],
  "race": "baltimore-county/county-council",
  "residence": "Dundalk",
  "sn1": "Kamenetz record",
  "sn2": "Resources/Taxes",
  "sn3": "Housing",
  "sn4": "School system",
  "sn5": "Revitalization",
  "sn6": "Police",
  "sn7": "Zoning",
  "sn8": "Baltimore City",
  "sn9": "Transit",
  "social-fb": "davidraderii",
  "social-tw": "davidrader",
  "survey-response": true,
  "title": "Dave Rader",
  "web": "http://www.votedaverader.com"
}
